Hi, everyone, welcome to Practical Python.
My name is Nina Zakharenko,
and I'm your instructor today.
This is an immersive
hands-on Python course, and
it requires a little bit
of prerequisite knowledge.
So in order to really succeed today, you
should be comfortable on the command line.
You don't have to be a pro.
And you should know a little bit about
programming in some other language.
So understand basic constructs
like loops and variables.
And those are gonna be the things
that set you on the path to success.
If you're a little bit more of a beginner,
you might enjoy the the two day course
that I did for Frontend Masters last year,
called Introduction to Python and
Python Fundamentals.
Now, you might see this course
website that I have up here,
you can find this at
practical.learnpython.dev.
Let me bring that URL up for a minute.
Practical.learnpython.dev.
Now, I recommend that you, Don't
just follow along on this website,
don't read,
because we're gonna be
moving pretty quickly today,
and you're gonna get most comfortable
if you type along with me.
So by typing along with me, as I type,
you're gonna gain that muscle memory
that's really going help
that knowledge stick.
A little bit about me.
My name is Nina Zakharenko,
and let's see here,
I've been coding altogether for
probably about a decade now.
I started out in Java.
[LAUGH] That is my secret.
But I moved towards Python probably
about six years ago now because I
really liked the community.
And I thought that the libraries and
the ecosystem were really amazing.
I started speaking at Python conferences
and just completely fell in love with it.
Recently, I've been elected
to the Board of Directors for
the Python Software Foundation,
which is really great.
I get to do a lot of good work.
And I've also written code for
companies like Reddit and Meetup and HBO.
These days, I'm a Principal Cloud Advocate
at Microsoft, focusing on Python.
If you wanna stay in touch with me,
I'm on Twitter or LinkedIn or GitHub.
All of the links are here.
And then I also included links to
some of the more popular conference
talks that I've done over the years.
You can also find my other
courses on Frontend Masters.
One of my personal favorites
is get in depth, and
as well as Python Fundamentals and
Intermediate Python.
A little bit about navigating the course.
If you see any typos, which I have
not made because I am 100% perfect,
but if you spot anything that
you think shouldn't be there,
there's an Edit this page link
at the top of every page.
And that will take you directly to GitHub,
where you can open a poll request.
There are navigation arrows here on the
left and the right side, and you can also
navigate via keyboard shortcuts,
which is one of my favorite features.
There are breadcrumbs on the top
left here for each section.
And that will pull up a table
of contents right here.
Some sections look like this with double
arrows that have additional content.
So you can just go ahead and click on
that and that content will expand.
If you want to copy any of the code or
any of the commands,
you can hit this button right here and
it will copy to the clipboard.
If we're working in the Python REPL, for
example, where there are extra control
characters that are in that will be
displayed on the course website,
know that they won't be copied over.
You can search in this text box up here.
And as you go through the course,
you'll see a little checkbox
next to each chapter.
You can go ahead and clear the history
if you find that distracting.
And again, I really suggest following
along with me in the class and
typing as much as possible.
This is a resource for you to have, cuz
I know that when I'm done with a class,
especially one that's all day,
I feel like did I learn anything?
I'm just gonna forget everything.
So it's here for you for afterwards.
It's here for the exercises or
if you need to go back and
figure out how to do something.
But I do not recommend reading it.
I wanna quickly go through
the course agenda.
So I'm gonna explain to you, why Python?
Why you might wanna reach for Python?
Why you might wanna choose Python for
your project?
And talk a little bit about
some of the philosophies and
Python's design principles.
Then we're gonna move on to data types.
Python is a dynamic language.
What does that mean?
We're gonna learn how to work with
numbers, strings, lists, and more.
Then we're gonna move on to some of
the more advanced data types that
Python offers.
And those are sets,
tuples, and dictionaries.
These are container objects that let
us organize other types of objects
in different ways into other
kinds of data structures.
Then we're gonna move on to functions,
loops, and logic.
Functions help us organize our code in a
way that's more readable and reusable, and
they accept arguments and
defaults as needed.
And loops are gonna take us let us take
action on collections of different items.
Boolean logic, it's gonna allow us
to control the flow of our program.
We're gonna cover some practical
applications of what we've learned so far,
including using advanced looping types.
Like list comprehensions, converting
between different types in Python,
which I believe is really one
of its absolute strengths.
And we're also gonna cover
how to work with files.
Next is going to be
object-oriented Python,
which allows us to represent our code
in a little bit of a different way.
We can define reusable classes and
define relationships between different
objects and build modular and
reusable code.
We're also gonna cover libraries and
modules.
So now that you have all the foundational
understanding of how Python works,
you're gonna learn how to structure your
code and work with different libraries,
both the standard library and
external third party packages.
And then, in the last chapter we're
gonna cover web frameworks, and
we're gonna talk about
Django in particular.
So we're gonna practice all of our new
Python knowledge by building a basic blog,
a basic web application with
some unit tests and a database.
This is gonna give you a great tour of
everything that's available in Python.
You might not be an expert in any one of
these areas by the end of the day, but
you have the tools available to learn and
discover more.
Now, there are a few prerequisites
before going through the course.
You need to have a Linux,
Mac or Windows 10 machine.
If you're using Windows 10,
you need to make sure that you have
administrative rights so
that you can run your programs correctly.
We're gonna be working with
the latest version of Python,
which as of today is Python 39.
We're gonna be using Visual Studio Code,
and
the Python extension for
Visual Studio Code.
Now, a lot of you are already programming,
you already have your environment set up.
Why VS Code?
Well, I recommend that we're all
on the same environment today,
because if you run into any issues, this
is really gonna help us troubleshoot and
figure out what's wrong.
Once you're done with the class, feel
free to go back to your editor of choice.
I have a section here for how to set
up VS Code with different key bindings.
For example, I use VS Code with Emacs key
bindings, and you can set up them, or
Sublime, or
whatever you're most comfortable with.
Really appreciate if we were all
in the same environment, and
that way you can follow the steps.
And you know there there's
nothing about your machine or
your editor that's gonna
cause any problems.
I'm gonna review the setup instructions
for Mac OS, because that's what I'm using,
but instructions for
Windows are available as well.
And then I'm gonna quickly show
you how to configure VS Code for
maximum productivity in Python.
All right, so here are all the things that
you should have downloaded and set up.
Python 3, Visual Studio Code, and the
Python extension for Visual Studio Code.
If you don't have these set up right now,
please go ahead and
start installing these prerequisites on
your machine while I continue talking.